Okay, thanks a lot for coming.
We've got a lot of good
stuff to show you today,
so let's just jump right in.
In this session,
we're going to first talk a little bit
about what we've learned in QTKit as
it exists in Panther and Tiger,
so some of the accumulated wisdom that
we've gotten by helping people use it.
Then we're going to jump
into new stuff in Leopard.
We're going to talk about
some new methods that we've
added to existing classes.
We'll talk about the 64-bit operation.
I know some of you are
interested in that.
And we'll spend actually most of
our time on the new capture classes.
QTKit has more than
tripled in size in Leopard,
and so I can't talk about everything,
especially since this is a hands-on lab.
So we're going to be looking at code,
working through code,
and actually building applications
from scratch in here using QTKit.
So what have we learned in the past year,
year and a half,
working with QTKit in Tiger and Panther?
Well, we found out that there
were some bugs in it,
and we fixed those.
And by far, my favorite bug is one that
concerns the movie creation
time or the movie modification
time attribute of a QT movie.
It turns out that if you
created a movie right now,
and then you use QTKit to
determine the movie creation time,
you'd get a time that was 13 hours ago.
And actually, the number of hours that
you were wrong depended upon
where in the world you were.
So if you were in Burma,
you'd actually get the correct time.
When we stood up here last year,
we told you that you can't subclass
QTMovieView and correctly override
the event handling methods.
So we fixed that,
and in a second I'll show
you exactly how that works.
And finally,
there's an issue that comes up quite
often on the mailing list about,
why am I not getting the correct answers
when I query some movie properties?
And so there's an issue or two
there that I'd like to talk about.
So let's talk about
subclassing QTMovieView.
As I said, it did not work correctly
in QuickTime 7.0.
A QTMovieView is a subclass of NSView.
You expect to be able to subclass it
and override some of the NSView methods.
Well, you couldn't do that.
But we did fix that in 7.04.
So you've had, for quite a while,
a version of QTKit where
you could do that.
And let's just look at a demo of that.
Could I have the first demo machine?
Now, there is one technical glitch
I have to mention that I can only
see what's down here unless I turn
around because of some tricks with
the capture that's going to come up.
So if it looks like I'm
squinting down here,
it's because I am.
Is that my project file?
OK.
And is it launching?
No, it's not.
So this is just a standard document-based
application that I'm opening up.
Does it not want to open?
Here we go.
And since what I want to do is
create a subclass of QTMovieView,
let's just look at the declaration there.
And you see that my movie view is
declared as a subclass of QTMovieView.
And you can also see that I'm
overriding just one method in there.
So let's-- oh, no, I didn't hit Quit.
I hit Command-W.
Let's try that again.
This time I'll hit Command-W.
And let's look at the
implementation of that.
As you can see, as I said,
I'm overriding only one method.
And in this particular case,
what I want to do is prevent the
user from stepping through the movie.
So I look for those key-down
events that have the left arrow
key or the right arrow key,
and I'm just going to do
nothing if I hit one of those.
Otherwise,
I'll just process it in the standard way.
So there is my subclass of QTMovieView.
Let's build and run this.
In a second it will come up.
And let's open a movie.
Oh, let's just pick that one there.
So here I have a movie,
and just to make clear, I'm going to,
you can see that I'm hitting
the left and right arrow keys
and nothing has happened.
All the other keys, for instance,
the space bar,
does in fact start the movie playing.
There's one other thing
I want you to notice,
which is on the controller bar,
you'll see that on the right-hand
side of the controller bar,
where you normally would
have the little step buttons,
they're not there.
How did I do that?
Let's look now at my document class,
and you'll see right after I open
it and assign a movie to the view,
I call this new method,
set step button visible, no.
So that's a new method that I'll
talk about in more detail later that
allows me to hide those step buttons.
So now if we could go back to slides,
please.
So there's a simple case of where
I was able to do what you thought
you could always do or always
should have been able to do,
which is subclass the view
object and override its methods.
Now let me talk about this issue about
operating on newly opened movies.
The essential thing you have
to keep in mind is that all
of the QT movie initialization
methods operate asynchronously.
That means no matter
which of them you call,
we're gonna give you back a
QT movie object right away.
Even before possibly any of the
movie data is available to us,
we're going to give you
a valid QT movie object.
So some people want to
do something like this.
They want to call movie with URL,
passing in a URL,
and then immediately they say, well,
all right,
give me the natural size attribute.
Because I want to say, no,
how big to make my movie view so
I can draw things the correct size.
Or they might say, all right,
let's play it.
The trouble with this, as I said,
is that the movie with URL method
is going to return virtually
immediately with a valid QT movie.
But the server that's got that
URL could be off in Burma,
for all we know.
And it could be a real slow server.
So by the time we get
that QT movie object,
there could be none
of the movie metadata,
that is to say the movie Adam, available.
And there could be none of the
movie media data available.
So we're not going to be able to
query any of the movie properties.
Let alone the movie data.
on the natural size,
and we're not going to be
able to start playing it.
So how would we actually do this right?
One way is to force the
movie to open synchronously.
And you would do that by using a
different movie opening method,
that is, movie with attributes.
And you'll set up a dictionary
where you specify the URL,
and you also set the
QTMovieOpenAsyncOK attribute to null.
So essentially, you would be saying,
it's not OK to do that
fancy asynchronous opening.
I want you to take your time,
get all the movie data,
and then return to me.
So if you do this,
then you can't-- this is good code.
You could then call
the attribute for key,
looking for any of the movie properties,
and you could start the movie playing.
What's wrong with this method is that,
again, if you've got a slow server,
you're just going to be blocking
your application for as long
as it takes for every little
piece of that movie to download.
And what's even worse is that you
don't need every little piece of
the movie in order to do either
of the things you want to do.
In order to determine the
natural size of the movie,
you just need the movie atom,
which is probably a couple
thousand bytes or maybe even less
at the beginning of the movie,
and you can get that real quick.
And also, to start the movie playing,
you don't need to have all the
movie media data available.
You just need enough of the data such
that if you were to start playing now,
by the time all of the data arrived,
you'd be at the end.
So the better way to handle
this issue is to monitor what
we call the movie load state.
And we do it like this,
and I apologize for
that huge chunk of code.
But once again, we could use movie with
URL to open the movie.
And again,
that will execute asynchronously.
And then what we do is
register for a notification.
In this case,
we want to look for the movie load
state did change notification.
And when we get that notification,
we'll call this load
state changed method.
And you can see what I'm doing is
looking for two different thresholds.
I apologize for the hard-coded constants.
It turns out that
QTKit doesn't help us out here.
In movies.h,
there are a couple of constants,
but probably you're
not including movies.h.
So we will add some constants
to QTKit so you don't have those
ugly 10,000 and 20,000 in there.
So when you get to the 10,000 state,
that means that your movie is playable.
And what that really means is
that the movie atom is available.
So at that point,
you can query the movie properties.
You could ask for the natural size.
You could ask for the duration,
anything you wanted to know about it.
The next threshold that we're
interested in is 20,000.
And what that means is that the movie
is now playable through to the end.
It doesn't mean that
all the data is there.
It just means that by the time
we got to some data we needed,
we think it would be there.
A third possibility that you have now in
Leopard is to use the autoplay method.
And we could do that like this.
We could, again,
open the movie using movie with URL.
That will execute asynchronously.
So right away, we'll get a movie back.
And then we can call
this new method autoplay.
And autoplay just means what I've
said a couple of times already.
Go ahead and start the movie when you
think you've got enough data to play
it through to the end uninterrupted.
Okay,
now let's talk about some new APIs we've
added to the existing classes.
In QTMovie, we've added five general
categories of methods.
We have some methods that allow you
to create writable movie containers.
I'll explain that more in a minute.
We've got some utilities that
will help you execute QTMovie,
sorry, QTKit methods on a thread.
We have this autoplay
method that we just saw,
so we don't need to talk
about that really much more.
We have some methods that allow
you to tag movies with the
visual aperture mode information.
I'm not going to explain
that in great detail.
I hope you were at the talk yesterday,
or the modern video talk,
I believe it was today,
where he talked in great length about
the four different aperture modes and
what the exact meaning of those was.
And finally,
we have some methods that allow
you to create chapters in a movie.
A chapter is a named segment of a movie.
The asterisk on that one means that
it's not in the seed that you have now.
We haven't gotten the
implementation fully in there,
but we will have those in Leprechaun.
Bye.
We've added one class of
methods in QTMovieView,
which are what I call
controller bar button methods.
And we already saw one of those,
where I was able to hide the step
buttons in the movie controller bar.
In QTTrack,
we also have the track analogs of
the visual aperture mode methods.
And we have a very nice new attribute
called the format summary attribute.
So here's what declarations look like.
The QTMovie writable
movie container methods.
The idea is this.
When QTKit first came out,
the methods that we supplied
allowed you to open existing
QuickTime movies and to edit them.
There was no facility whatsoever
to create new QTMovie objects
and have things work out the way
you think they should work out.
And believe it or not,
people wanted to create new movies.
So DTS put together some sample
code that helped them in this,
and we'll actually look
at that in a second.
But the best solution is for us to
give you a method where you can say,
"Here's a file name.
Create a new file there
and give me back a QTMovie,
and if I add any data to that QTMovie,
it should go into that
file." And as you can see,
we also have the ability to do
that to a block of memory and data
or to an arbitrary data reference.
We've added a bunch of
threading utilities.
If you've worked with QuickTime,
you know that there are some
conditions about calling
things on background threads.
And if you've actually worked with it,
you've had to resort to some
C-level APIs in order to make sure
that things are as thread-safe
as they can be under QuickTime.
And if you've worked with them,
these names here should not surprise you.
And we'll look at these
in more detail later.
Autoplay, enough said.
We've seen it in operation.
QT Movie Visual Aperture Mode methods.
Again, on the movie level,
the first method here,
Generate Aperture Mode Dimensions,
will take a movie,
and it will go through all
the tracks in the movie,
and it will take its best guess
as to what the various aperture
mode settings should be.
So if you trust us,
you can just call Generate Aperture
Mode Dimensions on a QT Movie object,
and you're done.
Or if you don't trust us,
you can go ahead and
remove the work we did.
Now, on the track level,
we also have some
Visual Aperture Mode methods.
Again, if you trust us,
you can call on a QT track,
Generate Aperture Mode Dimensions,
or if you don't trust us, you can say,
for this given aperture mode,
and the four aperture modes
are listed here at the bottom,
I want you to set the dimensions for that
mode to this NS size that I'm passing in.
So you have complete control over setting
these Visual Aperture Modes settings.
The chapter methods are
going to look like this.
Again, they're not in your seeds.
Actually, play with them.
So you'll be able to determine
whether a movie has some chapters.
If it has them, how many it has.
You can get an array of the chapters,
and that array will include
for each chapter the string,
which is the chapter title,
and the start time of that chapter.
The fourth method there
I think is most interesting.
You can add some chapters to a movie.
I think that will be
very useful to people.
Finally, you can remove chapters.
And the last two methods allow
you to navigate within a movie,
either by chapter index or given a time
to find which chapter is at that time.
This looks like a lot of new methods,
but really it's just
variations on a theme.
Namely, for a given button in
the movie controller bar,
tell me whether it's visible or not,
and also set it to whatever
state I tell you to set it to.
Finally, in QTTrack,
we've got this new attribute,
the track format summary.
And what that does is
hand me back an NSString,
which is a human-readable,
localized description
of the track's format.
And we'll look at that later.
So now let's jump in and do some work.
Let's look at these writable file-- no,
I want to stay on slides, please.
Okay, so as I said,
when QTKit first came out,
we had no facility in the kit
to allow you to create an empty
movie file and add data to it.
And people, as I said,
wanted to do that for some reason.
And we so got together with DTS and
concocted some sample code that
sort of kind of worked and allowed
them to do what they wanted.
And the key here is to call the
C-level API createMovieStorage.
What that does is create a new
container at the specified location
and return to you in the last
parameter a QuickTime movie that's
associated with that file or
URL or memory location or whatever.
So the first yellow line there
takes a file name and gives us
back what we call a data reference.
In fact, it gives us back a data
reference and the type.
And as you can see,
we are passing those into
the createMovieStorage call.
So that's what we do at the C-level.
And then in kit,
we will create a new QT movie by calling
the movieWithQuickTimeMovie method.
And then, of course,
we need to set that movie to
be editable because by default,
a QT movie is not editable.
So that's the setup we'd have to do.
Now we could add some data to the movie,
and we might do it like this.
There's this nice add image for duration
with attributes method in QTMovie.
And we would get an image here.
We're reading it out of our bundle.
We'll specify a dictionary of
settings as to what codec we
want that image to be saved with.
And then we call add image,
and the image gets added to the movie.
Oh, we're not done yet.
So you've added this image to the movie.
You think you could be able to call the
general method that updates a movie file,
namely update movie file.
No.
This old way has the
problem that that will fail.
So what you need to do now is take that
movie that is on disk and has data in it
and flatten it into yet a second movie.
So that's why I'm calling the
right to file with attributes,
passing in a dictionary where I say,
I just want to flatten this
movie into this new location.
Well, that's tedious.
So take all three slides that I've just
shown you and put them into this one.
This is the value of this new method,
this initToWritableFile.
We start by calling initToWritableFile,
passing it a path name.
We'll then do the standard add image.
That hasn't changed.
And we end it all up by
calling updateMovieFile,
and we're done.
That file on disk now has all the
data in it that we want it to have.
So now let's do a demo of this.
Is that my writable file demo?
Is that my project?
All right, let's look at the code
that I'm going to run.
You can see this is just
like what I had on the slide,
except that instead of adding
one image to the movie,
I'm adding three here.
Again,
they're just all stored in my bundle.
And then I call updateMovieFile.
And you'll notice that at the end,
I'm going to set the movie on the view,
so that once I've created the movie,
it should pop up in my view.
So let's run that.
So I just click
Create Movie real quickly.
The movie is created on disk
and comes up in my movie view.
And if I go through it,
you can see it has three frames,
and each one lasts for three seconds.
Now, just for those doubting
Thomases in the audience,
you can see that I wrote the file
into slash temp slash new movie.
So let's go to slash temp.
And is there something
called new movie there?
Yes, there is.
Let's open new movie.
This will come up in QuickTime Player,
and it's the movie we just
saw come up in the view.
So we did take three
images from our bundle,
put them into a movie,
and the movie exists on disk.
Okay, can we go back to slides, please?
So, some people will find
that a very useful method,
and we've added it in.
Now, let's talk about threading.
QTKit is built on QuickTime.
QuickTime is very old.
QuickTime has some issues with threading.
QuickTime is not, in general,
thread-safe.
In order to do QuickTime operations
on secondary threads,
you need to jump through some hoops.
The primary hoop that you
have to jump through is this.
QuickTime wants to operate on a
movie on only one thread at a time.
So, I can't be doing something to
a movie on the main thread and
also on a background thread.
So, it is incumbent upon me,
as a developer,
to tell QuickTime when I want to stop
working on a movie on one thread and
start working on it on another thread.
So this is what you'd think,
as a Cocoa programmer,
you ought to be able to do.
Open a movie that's in a file,
and then call the standard detached
new thread selector to run some
method on a background thread.
So that's what I think you
ought to be able to do.
And then on the background thread,
you'd think that it
should look like this.
You create and release
your auto-release pool.
You always do that on
a background method.
And then you should be able to say,
export the file in that method.
So that's what you'd like to do,
and that's what an untutored
Cocoa programmer would do.
And you'd run into
problems if you did that.
Again, as I said,
it's your job to tell QuickTime when
you no longer want to work
on a movie on a given thread.
So in the main thread,
we'll open the movie,
and then we'll call this C-level API,
Detach Movie from Current Thread.
That just says to QuickTime,
I'm done with the movie on this thread.
And then you do your
Detach New Thread Selector.
Okay?
So that's all you
really have to do there.
In Leopard, we've given you a method that
makes things have a little
bit better Cocoa flavor,
namely detached from current
thread on a QT movie.
And then, on the background thread,
this is what you need to do.
You need to attach that
movie to the current thread.
Then you need to do your work.
And then you're probably going to want
to detach it from the current thread.
But before you do any of that,
you have to tell QuickTime, oh,
by the way, I'd really like to do some
QuickTime stuff on this thread.
QuickTime needs to know that, too.
So we call this Enter Movies on Thread.
is the developer of the QTKit function.
And then when we're done,
we're going to call
exit movies on thread.
Once again,
we've got some new QTKit methods
that make it look more Cocoa,
and so you don't have to dip down
into the C-level API anymore,
and they look like that.
Okay, there's one more issue.
So that's the snippet that
I just had of the old style,
pre-leopard way of doing things.
There's one little thing you
can do to make your app a
little bit more bulletproof,
and that is to stop the movie from
being idled on that background thread.
So one could consider this to be a
bug in QTKit that it will continue
to idle a movie on a background
thread when it really shouldn't.
So this actually,
this call exists pre-leopard.
So you can call this
as long as you want to.
As long as you do the response to
selector thing to make sure you're safe.
Let's look at a demo of this now.
So let's look at the code
I'm going to be running.
So when I click the Export button
that you'll see in my document window,
I'm going to--
called the detach from current
thread method that I talked about.
So I'm telling QuickTime I'm
going to stop working with
that movie on this thread.
And if that completes successfully,
I want to then do the detach
new thread selector thingy.
And notice one other thing
I've done is I'm setting the
movie on the movie view to nil.
That's so that the user doesn't try
and say play the movie while it's being
operated on in the background thread.
So I'm just being safe here.
And then the method that I want
to run in this background,
we'll call enterKitOnThread.
Now the reason I have that
commented out line there is
that in the code that you have,
it's the other line that's commented out.
And that's the operative line.
So we got it backwards there.
So forget that that
big long line is there.
You never saw it.
Then what I'm going to want to do
is export this movie into a new
format by calling write to file,
which is my standard method
for exporting or flattening
or doing anything to a movie.
And the dictionary I'm passing in says,
yes, I'd like you to export that movie.
And if you could, would you please export
it to 3GPP format?
So when I've done that,
I will then do the detach from
current thread so that I can operate
on the movie back on the main thread
and call execute QTKit on thread.
And one final thing I've added
here is that I want to let the main
thread know that it's safe to put
the movie back in the movie view.
So I'll do this perform selector
on main thread and the selector is
It's up top there.
It's finish export,
and the finish export just attaches
the movie back to the main thread and
sets the movie back into the view.
So let's run that.
So first thing I need
to do is open a movie.
So I'll just open our favorite
little three-frame movie.
I'm going to export it to 3GPP format.
Notice that the view goes black
because I have disassociated
the movie from the view.
That was pretty quick.
It came back right away.
So if I'm lucky,
where did I export it to?
Slash temp slash exported movie.
So let's again look here.
There is exported movie.
Let's open it.
And you'll notice that this is a
smaller version of the movie we
saw because this is in 3GPP format,
that is to say, suitable for streaming
to your cell phone.
So let's close that up
and go back to slides,
please.
Okay,
the next thing I want to show is hiding
and showing controller bar buttons,
and we've sort of seen that,
so I'll go quickly.
So if I could go to, well,
here's the basic thing.
We've already seen these.
Are step buttons visible?
Well, tell me if the step buttons
are currently visible,
and then setting them visible.
Here,
I'm just toggling the state of that.
So let's please go to the demo machine,
please.
Okay.
Let's look at the code.
It's very simple.
It's just a bunch of IB actions
that read the current state of
whatever button I'm telling it to
toggle and then toggles the state.
So nothing exciting there.
Let's run it.
I will open a linear movie,
our favorite movie,
and you can see that I can say
hide and show the step buttons.
I can hide and show this
so-called custom button.
That's useful for you to say
to stick a menu off that,
so when the user clicks there,
they could pull down a menu.
Now let me open a QuickTime VR movie.
[Transcript missing]
And finally,
let's look at this track format demo.
The idea here is we've added a
new attribute on a QTTrack object
that lets me get a human-readable,
localized version of
the format of the track.
So here I'm taking all the tracks,
and I'm just taking the
first track in the movie,
asking for its track format summary.
And I will get back an NSString that
looks perhaps something like
this if it's an MPEG-3 track.
So let's again just do
a quick demo of that.
We can look at the code,
but it's just sort of
what you've already seen,
with the minor exception that this
actually iterates through all the
tracks in the movie and builds up
one big string that encapsulates the
information about all those tracks.
So let's run that.
[Transcript missing]
You didn't see that.
Let me go back to my project window.
I will reveal to you why that was red,
which is that we built
and ran a 64-bit app.
We really would like to be in 32 bits,
don't you think?
Let's do that in 32 bits.
Okay, so this should work better.
We will open that same movie.
And now we see that this movie,
I've printed out the
format summary there.
It has five tracks.
Four of them are soundtracks.
There are two pairs that
are identical in format.
And then there's an
H.264 video track there.
Okay.
Very straightforward.
Could I have slides, please?
So those are the new APIs,
or at least a selection of
the new APIs we've added to
the existing classes in QTKit.
Let's talk a little bit
about 64-bit operation.
As you've heard in several
of the talks already,
if you need to get quick time
operations in your 64-bit app,
you need to use QTKit.
The API that you're going to use
is identical to the 32-bit API,
with a couple of exceptions.
First of all, and most importantly,
you cannot use any methods that access
the native QuickTime data types.
So the two that I've listed,
QuickTime Movie and
QuickTime Movie Controller,
are not available to you in 64-bit.
Those are what you use to get
the QuickTime Movie or the
QuickTime Movie Controller that
you can then call the C API on.
Well, there is no C API for
QuickTime in 64-bit,
so they'd be pretty useless
for us to provide those.
So let's do a demo of 64-bit.
You've already seen one.
But just for the heck of it,
I'm going to do it over here
on this new Intel machine.
Here we go.
And it was called,
I'm running the same app that I just ran,
namely Track Format Demo.
And I will open that same movie.
And it was called,
I'm running the same app that I just ran,
namely Track Format Demo.
And I will open that same movie.
Some of you might not believe
that that's really 64-bit,
but I can prove it to you
because I can run ps-l.
Let's try that again.
This lists all the running processes,
and one nice thing about the "-l" option
is that it prints this flags field here.
And if I can find my running program...
This is it right here.
And I know that because it says 4004.
The final four there is a flag that
means this is running in 64-bit space.
And if you look at that column,
you'll see that nothing else
is running in 64-bit space.
So indeed, I am running this as
a 64-bit application.
And I'll stop there.
Thank you.
Can I go back to slides?
To me, it's kind of hard to believe
that that actually works,
right?
I mean, we've said QuickTime is
not available in 64-bit,
but QTKit is available.
Well, that's sort of an evasion.
That doesn't explain how it works, right?
I mean, QTKit depends on QuickTime.
So how do we get this to work?
Normally,
we don't give you implementation details,
which is what I'm about to give you.
And the only reason I'm giving you
these is because in the seed you have,
if you want to build 64-bit apps,
you might need to know some of this,
with the caveat that these
are subject to change.
So we have QTKit, and it exists as a 64-
and a 32-bit framework.
A Cocoa application or indeed
a Carbon application can link
against the 64-bit QTKit framework.
And it can call QTKit methods
such as MoviePlay.
The way we've implemented this is to have
a client and server model running here.
So the client essentially is
the 64-bit QTKit framework.
And as you can see,
the implementation of that
play method is just to make an
IPC call over to QTKit server.
And we're using MIG-based IPC here,
so we've got Mach messages
running between these two,
so we're getting really good performance.
And the rest of the story
should be pretty obvious.
QTKit server links up with
the 32-bit version of QTKit,
which then accesses
QuickTime capabilities.
And you've seen it work.
I mean, it actually works.
So that's pretty amazing to me.
There are some limitations.
In the seed that you have,
the capture classes are not available.
I'll talk about those in just a second.
There's no reason they
couldn't have been there,
it's just there was a deadline we had
to meet and they didn't make it in.
I fully expect that in
the next seed you get,
the capture classes will
be available in 64-bit.
You cannot currently use
QTMovie delegate methods.
I doubt that anybody here could
actually tell me one of the
five QTMovie delegate methods,
so you're probably not using them,
so that's probably not a big problem.
You cannot do drag and drop editing
out of a QTMovie view in 64-bit.
Again, that's simply a limitation
of the seed deadline.
That should be fixed real soon.
You've already seen number four there.
There are some drawing glitches.
So you saw that big red rectangle where
there should have been a movie view.
That's the glitch.
And occasionally,
and this is why I'm giving you
the implementation details that
I really shouldn't be giving you,
you might need to kill the server or
you might need to restart the server.
The server should restart automatically.
It's managed by launchd,
but launchd has this feature
that if it finds a server
that it thinks is a bad boy,
it'll give him a timeout and
it won't relaunch him ever.
So you might need to
do something like this.
So just do man launch control and
you'll see exactly what this means.
All right, now what you're all here for,
I'm sure.
Capture in QTKit.
As I said yesterday,
the important thing for you to
understand is that the new capture
classes that we're offering you are not
just a wrapper on the sequence grabber.
We could have given
you that two years ago.
In fact, if you go out on the web and
spend a little time with Google,
you can find four or five
sets of Cocoa classes that are
wrappers on the sequence grabber.
We didn't want to do that.
Sequence grabber is so 1991 technology.
You don't want that.
You want something built on
a brand new capture engine.
You want something built
on an engine which,
for instance,
absolutely will not drop frames.
That's one quirk of the sequence grabber.
So this new engine gives us the
capabilities that I've listed there.
You get very, very accurate audio-visual
synchronization.
Again, Sequence Grabber had its problems.
You can get frame-accurate capture.
By that I mean, you can say,
I want you to start capturing
at exactly this time code,
and I want exactly 245 frames
in the file that you write out,
and you'll get it.
We simply don't drop frames.
You get access to the transport
controls of your camcorder,
so you can fast-forward
and rewind the tape.
As you saw yesterday,
you get HDV capture if you have
the appropriate codecs installed,
and there's a whole lot more capabilities
that I simply don't have time to mention.
So what devices are supported?
The internal and external
eyesight cameras,
of course, are supported.
HGV devices.
Again, if you happen to have
Final Cut Pro installed,
then you can capture from one
of these nice HDV camcorders.
You can capture from
Core Audio HAL devices.
So everything that's in yellow
there is in the siege you have.
The two white ones are yet to be
implemented or yet to come to you.
That is to say DV devices,
and we are going to grandfather
in sequence grabber video devices.
So if you've got an existing
device that gives you video
through sequence grabber channels,
we'll be able to use it.
Let me go back.
I don't want to show you that yet.
As I said, QTKit has tripled in size.
We went from five classes to 16.
Those 11 new classes
are all capture classes.
It's a very complex new architecture
that we're giving you because it's
built on a pro-grade foundation,
and we want to give you
the capabilities you need.
I'm not going to talk
about all 11 classes today.
We don't have time and I frankly
don't understand all 11 classes.
So what I want to do is give you a
simplified picture and I'm going to
actually build a capture application
from scratch so you can see that you
don't need to know those 11 classes.
Some of those are very specialized.
The basic idea for QTKit capture is this.
You have an object called
a QTCaptureSession.
That's your capture object.
That's what you're going to use
to start and stop your capture.
This capture session gets
its data from somewhere.
We call that an input.
So that's going to be your
camcorder or your eyesight.
And this capture session wants
to put its output somewhere.
And you'll see that there are two
outputs that I'm going to show you today.
One is a file.
You want to write the data to a file.
The second output is the,
you want an on-screen preview
of what you're capturing.
So from the one input
through the capture session,
you're going to get a preview
into a QTCapture view,
and you're going to write
the data into a file.
So that's the real basic
architecture you need to understand.
The capture session ties it all together.
You have some inputs,
and you have some outputs.
So now let's look at this diagram.
There in the middle is
our capture session.
It's managing a QTCapture device input.
That is to say,
an input that's associated with a device.
Now, you could imagine there might
be other sorts of inputs.
We haven't implemented any in this seed,
but in the future, we can.
We've got the architecture there
to be able to plug things in.
The capture device input is
associated with a capture device,
which is just a representation
of the camcorder.
The outputs that I'm showing here
are a QTCapture movie output.
That's what manages the
writing into the file,
and that is associated with a QT movie.
On the other side, the output is, well,
ultimately to the capture view,
what you're previewing on screen.
And associated with the capture
view is an output called a
QTCaptureVideoPreviewOutput.
Now, if you build a capture view,
you don't need to worry
about that other object.
It will take care of creating the
video preview output object itself.
The reason I highlight it
is because maybe you don't
want a preview into our view.
Maybe you want to take the captured video
and composite it on an OpenGL surface.
At that point,
you are going to need to work with
the video preview output object.
So here are, again, not all,
but some of the main capture classes.
The capture session ties it all together.
The capture input gives us
the capture device input.
The capture output, as you can see,
there's the movie output and
the video preview output.
And that video preview output
might be transparent to you because
it's handled by the capture view.
Let's make a real quick tour through
some of these classes and look at the
methods that you're likely to use.
Again, for the,
I don't know how manyth time,
the main object you're going to
work with is the capture session.
You're going to add inputs
and add outputs to it.
So the top two methods that
I'm showing there are ones
you're certainly going to call.
You can also remove outputs and inputs.
And if you want,
you can get arrays of the
current outputs and inputs.
And as I said,
the capture session is where you're going
to do most of your capture manipulation.
So you can find out if I am capturing.
You can start capturing.
And then you think, well,
there ought to be a stop capturing call.
Well, here we've got a real mouthful.
Stop capturing with
post-processing delegate.
Why do we need that?
Why can't I just say stop capturing?
The capture session,
or the output object,
is going to write stuff into a file,
a temporary file that you cannot get at,
really.
There are delegate methods that allow
you to look at the frames as they
come in and decide whether you want
them written to the file or not.
When we want to stop capturing,
we're going to want to do
something with that temporary file.
Later,
what I'm going to do with it is flatten
that file into a different file.
Because if I'm writing data in
and then I say stop capturing
with post-processing delegate,
at that time the movie
Adam gets written to the file,
it's at the end of the file
where I don't really want it.
I want it at the beginning of the file,
so I'm going to want to do an export.
Or a flatten, I'm sorry.
Capture device methods.
So we can get an array of all
the available input devices.
That's how we're going
to know what to select.
We can get the display
name of a given device.
We can find out if it's connected or
whether another application is using it.
At the device input level,
we can create a device input
object from a given device.
Or we can get the device,
the capture device associated
with a capture device input.
The movie output,
there isn't a whole lot there.
The main thing we're going to want to
do is get the QTMovie that's associated
with that QTCapture movie output object.
The video preview output.
Again, I said,
if you're using the capture view,
you're not going to need
to worry about this object.
If you want to do fancy stuff,
which we'll demonstrate
in a little while,
such as composite the captured
video onto an OpenGL surface,
you're going to want to set the visual
context on one of these objects.
That's how, essentially,
you would accomplish that.
And then a capture view,
you will want to associate
it with a capture session,
and then we have some view-related
methods there that are pretty standard.
Fill color, preserves aspect ratio,
and so forth.
There are also a few notifications.
If a device gets
connected or disconnected,
your application can find out about it.
You might want to do
that in order to rebuild,
say, a pop-up list of available devices.
And you may want to know when a
capture session will start or will end.
The last four notifications, I believe,
are not implemented in the seed you have.
Transport controls you will get
by modifying the playback mode
attribute of a capture device.
You'll pass in a dictionary and
there will be settings for the
playback speed and whether it's
displaying video on its little monitor.
So let's do a demo.
All right, how brave am I today?
Let's hope the demo
gods are with me because
Thank you.
All right, do we have Xcode running?
Okay.
New project.
So I'm starting from nothing.
Oh boy, tell me I can read that.
When I get to
Cocoa document-based application,
is that it?
Is that it?
Excellent.
Am I good?
All right.
So I'm going to build a
Cocoa document-based application.
Okay.
This is stationary that's out of the box.
Let's call this WWDC demo.
Okay, so there's my standard
new Cocoa document-based
application stationery.
First thing I want to do,
because it's really easy to forget
when you're up here on stage,
is add in the--
QTKit framework, right?
It's going to be real hard
to do capture if I don't have
the QTKit framework in there.
Oh, goodness.
System.
Library.
Am I getting near frameworks?
Oh, this is much easier.
All right.
Then let's go down to...
You never knew programming
could be so hectic.
All right, so I've added QTKit framework
to my project.
Now I'm going to set up my UI,
and I should have resources there.
So I'm going to open my
main document nib there.
All right.
We don't need that wonderful text.
And what I do want is a QTCapture view.
So you can see this new icon here.
I'll just drag it over
in the standard way.
Drop it there.
[Transcript missing]
All right, we'll do it like that.
And I want to set the size of this to...
Resize correctly.
Okay.
Now I also want to add a
couple buttons to my document.
One to start capture.
And then I want to have one
that's going to stop capture.
Okay, so that's what my UI is
going to look like.
And... That's all right,
this is on stage.
What do you want?
And I need to make some
outlets and actions,
so I'll do that like this.
[Transcript missing]
First one, of course, is start capturing.
And I want another one.
Guess what that's gonna be called?
Okay.
And now I gotta make up my,
hook up my connections.
I will control drag
from the there to there.
And yes, that's good.
That is the capture view.
And then I will control drag
from the button to here.
Start capturing.
Very good.
And control drag from here to there.
And that is indeed stop capturing.
So I think I've got that all correct.
Now we need to write some code.
Let's go into my document.
Now remember I said we're going to
have three main objects running around.
We're going to have a capture session.
We're going to have some
inputs and some outputs.
Oh, you can't see that, can you?
So in my controllerDidLoadNib method,
I'll add this code.
[Transcript missing]
I have the capture view,
and then I have those three
objects that I talked about,
the device input, the movie output,
and the capture session.
And then I'll declare the two
actions that I want to implement.
Start capturing and stop capturing.
Okay,
now let's go back to my didload nib.
You'll see that the first thing I do
is create a capture session object,
and I create a device input object,
and I create a movie output object.
I then add the input
to the capture session.
I add the output to the capture session.
Next thing I need to do is add
a device to the device input.
So what I have done here is call the
input devices method on QTCapture device.
That's a class method,
and it's going to give me back
an array of all the available
devices that it can find.
And here I'm just going to
take the first one in the list.
I don't know what it is,
but that's what I'm going to
take as my capture device.
And then finally,
I need to set the capture
session onto the capture view.
So now I've created the session,
I've created the input,
I've created the output,
and I've hooked everything up correctly.
Okay, and then I think all I need to
do now is implement my start
capturing and stop capturing method.
There's Start Capturing, real simple.
I just call Start Capturing
on the capture session,
because that's what's
handling everything.
Stop capturing.
A little more complicated, but not much.
What am I going to want to
do when I stop capturing?
I'm going to want to...
[Transcript missing]
I hate when that happens.
Oh, I know what I did wrong.
Silly me.
Although we added,
The framework to our project,
we did not include its headers.
So we will include QTKit, qtkit.h.
And let's see if that builds.
Linking, that sounds good.
Build succeeded.
All right, let's run it.
Here comes our application.
If all goes well,
we should get preview from whatever
the first device on the list was,
and it seems to be this HDV Handycam.
[Transcript missing]
In fact, it's so good,
you can see that it's a really
old can of Campbell's soup.
The expiration date is 1998.
What it was doing in my closet,
I have no idea.
You probably want to see
some actual capturing done,
don't you?
I am so sick of this dock.
Turn on hiding.
Thank you.
All right, let's go back to where I can
actually see the buttons.
Oh, no.
So let's start capturing.
Maybe get a little motion in there.
We'll stop capturing.
And where did we write it?
We wrote it into /temp/capturedmovie.
Is there a captured movie there?
By golly, there is.
Let's open it, see what we got.
Oh, that's big.
Yeah.
All right, so it's so big it won't
even fit on this monitor.
So we successfully captured,
I don't know how many seconds,
of HDV video using, what,
20 lines of code?
Was it even that much?
Oh, you want to play it?
Oh.
You don't trust me?
There we go.
All right, how brave am I?
One feature that I didn't
mention is we can capture from
multiple devices simultaneously.
Well,
we almost have the code we need for that.
Let's just change things
here a little bit.
Hide that.
Almost a compression.
Sorry?
Uh, David?
What was the compression
scheme of that file?
Straight off the camera.
All the bits you ever wanted.
Okay, so we want to capture
from multiple devices.
I'm going to come over here.
So we're going to have
more than one device.
So let's throw in some nice static
variables that keep track of
how many devices we have and how
many files we're writing into.
We don't want to write them
all into the same file,
do we?
So now we have a device index.
And in our Awake from Nib, of course,
we don't want to always open device zero,
do we?
We want to open device at device index.
And since we don't always want zero,
we'll increment that.
So the next time through,
we'll get the next device in the list,
right?
And we need to make one other change.
This is going to be incredibly simple.
Uh, duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh-duh.
Okay.
So, let's just throw all of this
away and replace it by this.
So, when I'm done,
I'm going to detach the captured
movie from the current thread.
Because I don't want to do
this all on the main thread,
I want to do it on the background thread,
right?
Let's use some of that
code we wrote earlier.
And then once I do that,
I want to detach new thread selector.
I want to call write it
on a background thread,
passing in the movie
that I just captured.
And write it should look completely
familiar to you right now,
because it's just doing the stuff to
send the movie to the background thread,
write to file to write
the file out to a new,
sorry,
to write the movie out to a new file.
And finally,
you can see that I'm putting an
integer into the name so that I don't
write it all into the same file.
If I'm lucky, that will build.
Let me do one other thing here.
We're capturing a lot of data.
So let's just have it beep when
it's done exporting all that,
or flattening all that data,
so we know when we can
actually look at the file.
So let's build that.
And let's run it.
See what happens.
So there's our first device.
And this is a document-based application,
so I can come up here and do new.
So there's our first device.
And this is a document-based application,
so I can come up here and do new.
I will start capturing HDV.
I'll stop that.
I'll stop this.
Let's listen for a couple of beeps.
I don't know if they have the sound on.
There's two beeps.
All right.
Now the proof of the
pudding is in the eating.
Do we have two files there?
Captured movie one, captured movie two.
Does the first one open?
All right.
And now let's go back to terminal.
Let's open the second one.
Excellent.
So we got multiple capture
from two different devices.
Okay.
Can we go back to slides, please?
All right,
maybe you've got a Carbon application.
Can you use this stuff?
Sure, a Carbon application can link
against a Cocoa framework.
Let me just quickly demo this.
Can I go back to demo machine, please?
I'm not going to show
you the code for these.
I'm just going to-- does
that say Carbon capture?
So here's a Carbon application that
is putting up a QT capture view.
Because of the way we wrote it,
it's not actually previewing yet.
But when I start capture,
you will get the preview.
I'm not going to show
you the code for these.
I'm just going to-- does
that say Carbon capture?
And there it is up there, recorded movie.
I won't bother to open it because by now
I think you trust me that it actually
did capture the video it was supposed to.
And one last thing
I want to show you is...
And there it is up there, recorded movie.
I won't bother to open it because by now
I think you trust me that it actually
did capture the video it was supposed to.
And one last thing
I want to show you is...
So, let's get started.
So, we're going to start with a QTKit
And then we can give that a mask,
position it, crank up its visibility.
And there we see, if I crank that down,
there is Brad playing.
And so now we have composited
onto an OpenGL surface live video
and a stored QuickTime movie.
Thank you.
All right, back to slides, please.
So that was that demo that I just showed,
capturing individual context.
Okay, so what are the limitations?
These APIs are still in development.
It's a whole lot of new APIs.
As I said, it's 11 new classes.
We really are looking forward
to your feedback on this.
This is why you're here,
and this is why we give
you this stuff early,
so we can elicit feedback.
The audio preview output is not
working in the seed that you have.
On-the-fly compression is not
working in the seed you have.
Many of the device and channel
attributes I haven't even mentioned,
but are in the documentation,
are not currently working.
And the feature that I talked
about of frame exact capture is,
again, not in the seed that you have.
So, let's just sum up.
QTKit is getting better and better.
In Leopard, it takes on the burden for
giving you 64-bit operation,
and it is the only way to get
this brand new pro-grade capture
engine that's in QuickTime.
We're giving you new APIs as
we see that you need them,
and we're trying to sort of
expand the collective wisdom.
And as I said,
your feedback is crucial for us to
make this even better than it is now.
So, with that,
I want to vector you off to a
couple of labs tomorrow morning.
If you have 64-bit questions,
I have a list of that here.
I will be in the 64-bit lab from 9 to 10,
and then from 10 on,
I'll be in the graphics and media lab,
along with other capture engineers
to handle your questions.